Feature 918 add use case template (#2690)
dtcenter/METplus: docs/Contributors_Guide/add_use_case.rst

`Model Applications <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/model_applications/index.html>`_
page.

.. _add_sphinx_documentation_file:

Add Sphinx Documentation File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the corresponding documentation MET tool name directory
(*docs*/*use_cases/met_tool_wrapper/<MET TOOL NAME>*) for a met_tool_wrappers
use case OR category directory for a model_applications use case
(*docs*/*use_cases/model_applications/<CATEGORY>*), users will need to add a
Python Sphinx Documentation (.py) file with the same name as the METplus configuration file.

The following is a discussion of the use case documentation template and all of its sections.

> A link to an example template is available within the `METplus repository. <https://github.com/dtcenter/METplus/blob/feature_918_add_use_case_template/docs/use_cases/use_case_documentation_template.py>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `example template<https://github.com/dtcenter/METplus/blob/develop/docs/use_cases/use_case_documentation_template.py>`_ is available within the METplus repository. 
```
The link will break when the feature branch is deleted. Also suggest changing the link text.

The following is a discussion of the use case template and all of its sections.
A link to an example template is available within the `METplus repository. <https://github.com/dtcenter/METplus>`_
The example template should be used by users as a starting point, but will need to be completely 
updated with the use case's information. The template applies to both met_tool_wrappers and model_applications use cases.
When completing the template, users should read through each section and its description 
below before filling in a section, as some sections may not apply 
to the use case being documented. For real examples, users are encouraged to review
existing `Model Applications <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/model_applications/index.html>`_
use case documentation. Except for the Header and Path to Use Case Configuration File section,
all lines should begin with the '#' character to signify text, followed by at least one space before
the text content. These are already provided in the example template.

* Use Case Template Description:

  * Header and Path to Use Case Configuration File

>     * This section begins with {PrimaryStatAnalysisToolName}: Brief (12 words or less) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * This section begins with {MET_Tool_Name}: Brief (12 words or less) 
```

Reviewer 2: Should we consider replacing `{PrimaryStatAnalysisToolName}` with `{MET_Tool_Name}`? Although, maybe sometimes this is not a "MET Tool"?

Reviewer: It is possible that the use case does not call a MET tool, e.g. UserScript that calls a script to run METcalcpy or METplotpy. `PrimaryStatAnalysisToolName` may be confusing because there is a tool called `StatAnalysis`. Maybe `PrimaryAnalysisToolName`?

Author: The problem with this change is sometimes people will list ALL of the tools they use, or list a tool like PlotDataPlane, which does no statistical verification, as the lead name. PrimaryStatAnalysisToolName is something Tara insisted to use as it conveys where the primary focus of the use case is.
I can see where George's concern is valid, though. PrimaryAnalysisToolName is a good compromise.

Reviewer 2: Great! Thanks for the discussion all. I like `PrimaryAnalysisToolName`. Appreciate it!

      Note that if there is Python embedding, descriptions of what it accomplishes 
      should be saved for the “Python Embedding” section. A mention of the input to 
      the Python script and its returned dataset is sufficient for this section.

  * METplus Configuration

    * This section has set language that describes how all of the configuration files 
      are loaded into METplus, followed by what’s passed in by the user at runtime, 
      and used to produce the final configuration file that controls the METplus run. 
      It concludes with an embedded link (and image) of the user’s configuration file 
      the use case will run. The only two pieces that will change are the path to the 
      use case’s configuration file, and the embedded configuration file for the use case.

  * MET Configuration
    
    * This section has set language that describes how settings in the MET configuration file 
      will ultimately be used to run METplus, along with any changes made from the default 
      by the user’s configuration file. It concludes with an embedded link (and image) of 
      the default configuration file(s) for all MET tool(s) used. Any configuration file(s)

>       listed will be hidden be default using a dropdown option. The only changes that need 

Reviewer 3: change "be" to "by"

>       listed will be hidden be default using a dropdown option. The only changes that need 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      listed will be hidden by default using a dropdown option. The only changes that need 
```

      to occur for this section is which MET configuration file(s) is(are) embedded and the name of 
      the dropdown.
      If no MET tool(s) are used, that should be noted here and replace the default language.

  * Python Embedding
    
    * This section should provide a description of any Python embedding that’s used 
      in the use case. 
      For a common definition, Python embedding is used to ingest a dataset not 
      natively available for METplus intake, and results in a dataset being 
      returned to METplus for analysis and verification purposes.
      This section should discuss what is passed to the script from METplus, 
      what is being done by the script, and what data structure is passed back 
      to METplus for evaluation. The end of this section is set language 
      directing users to review the Python requirements in the MET User’s Guide, 
      as well as an embedded link (and image) of all Python scripts used in 
      Python Embedding. The links to these scripts will need to be updated by 
      the user.
      If no Python embedding is used, that should be noted here.

>   * Python Scripting

Reviewer 2: Is this "UserScript"? If so, should we somehow refer to it as such, to be consistent with the process in the `PROCESS_LIST` and also METplus Wrappers documentation?

Reviewer: I'll note that `UserScript` does not have to call a Python script. It can call any shell command. Maybe this section heading should be `User Scripting` instead?

Author: I thought we already referred somewhere else in the documentation to any Python scripting that happens outside of METplus,  where the analysis is completed outside of the system, as "Python Scripting"?
If User Scripting is the desired nomenclature I can update it, but I want this resolved here for the foreseeable future. The naming changes on this delineation of Python scripts that pass the data in vs Python scripts that pass the statistical results back has been ongoing for way too long.

Reviewer: Most of the existing UserScript examples do call a Python script because they call METdataio/METcalcpy/METplotpy Python logic. There seems to be a lot of confusion between "Python Embedding" and "Python Scripting," so using the term "User Scripting" may alleviate some of that confusion. We could note that a common example of "User Scripting" is to call a user's Python script that calls METplus Analysis Python logic.

Reviewer 3: Please ignore this if it isn't useful.
I did a search in ReadTheDocs for "Python Scripting". It wasn't a useful search.  Even with quotes, it pulled everything with either "Python" or "Scripting".  So I did a grep from the command line instead.  

In the Main branch we haven't used "User Scripting" or "Python Scripting".  My results are listed below.

petrichor:Contributors_Guide lisag$ pwd
/Users/lisag/git/METplus/docs/Contributors_Guide

petrichor:Contributors_Guide lisag$ grep -i "Python Scripting" *.rst

petrichor:Contributors_Guide lisag$ grep -i "User Scripting" *.rst

petrichor:Contributors_Guide lisag$ grep -i "Python Embedding" *.rst
add_use_case.rst:  If the use case uses a Python embedding script, it should be
add_use_case.rst:If the use case uses a Python Embedding script or any other additional files
add_use_case.rst:caused by exceeding the memory allocation in a Python Embedding script
add_use_case.rst:If a use case utilizing Python embedding does not run successfully in 
add_use_case.rst:  the Python embedding script exceeds the Github Actions limit, and that 
continuous_integration.rst:keyword is used (see Other Keywords). A Python Embedding use case that only
continuous_integration.rst:requires the minimum packages needed to run Python Embedding can use the
continuous_integration.rst:  run a Python Embedding script. If this keyword is included with a Python
continuous_integration.rst:be added to the call to run_metplus.py so that the Python embedding script
continuous_integration.rst:for more information on how to use Python Embedding.

Author: Thanks for the search Lisa.

Given that we haven't officially named what this type of scripting is, I'll go ahead and rename the section User Scripting, in both the template and discussion section.

      to these scripts will need to be updated by the user.
      If no Python scripting is used, that should be noted here.

  * Running METplus

    * Similar to “MET Configuration”, this section has set language that should not be altered. 
      The only change between use cases is the path entered in the run command, 
      which is use case specific.

  * Expected Output

    * This section begins with set language that shows what message a 
      successful METplus run concludes with. Then, it should direct users to the 
      proper folder (folders, if multiple outputs are made) and directory structure 
      where the final output is. If the use case creates intermediate output, it should 
      be mentioned here as well. A list of the files and folders that are created 
      should be provided. Currently the documentation notation used to list all output 
      is a copyable block which is created from the use of spacing and two ":" characters.
      This is done so that a browser's rendering of the Expected Output list will not 
      run off the page.  
      If a netCDF is the output, it should be listed how many and what variable fields 

>       are inside the file. If there are a large number of variable fields within the file, 

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if this should read "If there are a large number" or "If there is a large number" 🤔

Reviewer 3: I'm pretty sure it should read "If there is a large number".  But I defer to @jprestop  on all grammar matters.

Author: I think it should be are, as the variable fields is the noun of the sentence and its plural.

However, I'm always one for dodging a grammar check and will just update the sentence to

"If there are numerous variable fields within the file,"

Reviewer 4: I agree that it should be "are" for the same reason @j-opatz stated. "If there are numerous variable fields within the file," works too.

Reviewer 2: Thanks all!

In the corresponding documentation MET tool name directory

> (**docs**/*use_cases/met_tool_wrapper/<MET TOOL NAME>*) for a met_tool_wrappers

Reviewer 3: docs should not be bolded but in italics

use case OR category directory for a model_applications use case

> (**docs**/*use_cases/model_applications/<CATEGORY>*), users will need to a add 

Reviewer 3: docs should not be bolded but in italics

Python Sphinx Documentation (.py) file with the same name as the METplus configuration file.

The following use case template has been provided and is expected to be completed by all users
submitting new use cases. The template applies to both met_tool_wrappers and model_applications use cases.
When completing the template, users should read through each section and its description 

> and example before filling in the section, as some section may not apply 

Reviewer 3: add plural sections:
as some sections may not apply

> and example before filling in the section, as some section may not apply 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and example before filling in the section, as some sections may not apply 
```

to the use case being documented. For reference, users are encouraged to review
existing `Model Applications <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/model_applications/index.html>`_
use case documentation. Except for the Header and Path to Use Case Configuration File section,

> all lines should begin with the '#' character to signify text, followed by at least one space before

Reviewer 3: break up this line

the text content.

* Use Case Template::

    Header and Path to Use Case Configuration File
    

>     This section begins with {PrimaryStatAnalysisToolName}: Brief (12 words or less) and a unique 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    Scientific Objective

    This section should answer why this use case was created and included in the repository. 
    What is a user gaining by using this use case? If the details do not add to 
    the why this use case exists, those details do not belong in this section.

    Example:
    
    ##############################################################################
    # Scientific Objective
    # --------------------
    #
    # To provide statistical information on the forecast hail size compared to 
    # the observed hail size from MRMS MESH data. Using objects to verify hail size 
    # avoids the “unfair penalty” issue, where a CAM must first generate convection 
    # to have any chance of accurately predicting the hail size. In addition, studies 
    # have shown that MRMS MESH observed hail sizes do not correlate one-to-one with 
    # observed sizes but can only be used to group storms into general categories. 
    # Running MODE allows a user to do this.

    Version Added

    This represents the METplus version number that this use case was added to 
    the METplus repository. It also represents the minimum or lowest METplus version 

>     this use case has been tested against. It should not include betas (ex. Version 5.1 beta 3), 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    but should include the two-digit version number.

    Example:

    ##############################################################################
    # Version Added
    # -------------
    #
    # METplus version 5.1

    Datasets

    This section should include a brief description of each model dataset 
    and variable field (10 m wind speed, 2 m temperature, etc.) being used 

>     in the use case, as well as which field (forecast, observation, climatology, masking, etc.) 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

>     is using which dataset. At a minimum, users should list the Forecast, Observation, and Climatology

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    Example:

    ##############################################################################
    # Datasets
    # --------
    # **Forecast:** Global Forecast System (GFS) 25km resolution, 2m temperature
    #
    # **Observation:** ECMWF Reanalysis v5 (ERA5) 5 degree resolution, 2m temperature
    #
    # **Climatology:** None
    #
    # **Location:** All of the input data required for this use case can be 
    # found in a sample data tarball. Each use case category will have 
    # one or more sample data tarballs. It is only necessary to download 
    # the tarball with the use case’s dataset and not the entire collection 
    # of sample data. Click here to access the METplus releases page and download sample data 
    # for the appropriate release: https://github.com/dtcenter/METplus/releases
    # This tarball should be unpacked into the directory that you will 
    # set the value of INPUT_BASE. See `Running METplus`_ section for more information.

    METplus Components

    This section lists the tools that will be used during the use case. 
    If there are multiple tools, a brief overview should be provided of what each tool 

>     is responsible for (i.e. GenVxMask for creating masks that are used in the verification step, 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

>     which is completed by GridStat). If Python embedding is used, it can be mentioned here as well.

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    # then it loads any configuration files passed to METplus via the command line, 
    # i.e. parm/use_cases/model_applications/s2s/SeriesAnalysis_fcstCFSv2_obsGHCNCAMS_climoStandardized_MultiStatisticTool.conf
    #
    # .. highlight:: bash
    # .. literalinclude:: ../../../../parm/use_cases/model_applications/s2s/SeriesAnalysis_fcstCFSv2_obsGHCNCAMS_climoStandardized_MultiStatisticTool.conf
    #

    MET Configuration
    
    This section has set language that describes how settings in the MET configuration file 
    will ultimately be used to run METplus, along with any changes made from the default 
    by the user’s configuration file. It concludes with an embedded link (and image) of 
    the default configuration file(s) for all MET tool(s) used. The only change that needs 
    to occur for this section is which MET configuration file is embedded.
    If no MET tool(s) are used, that should be noted here and replace the default language.

    Example:

    ##############################################################################
    # MET Configuration
    # -----------------
    #
    # METplus sets environment variables based on user settings in the METplus 

>     # configuration file. See :ref:`How METplus controls MET config file settings<metplus-control-met>` for more details.

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    #

>     # **YOU SHOULD NOT SET ANY OF THESE ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES YOURSELF! THEY WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY METPLUS WHEN IT CALLS THE MET TOOLS!**

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    #

>     # If there is a setting in the MET configuration file that is currently not supported by METplus you’d like to control, please refer to:

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    # :ref:`Overriding Unsupported MET config file settings<met-config-overrides>`
    #
    # .. highlight:: bash
    # .. literalinclude:: ../../../../parm/met_config/GridStatConfig_wrapped

>     Python Embedding

Reviewer 3: Please break up this section so the user doesn't have to horizontally scroll to read it

    
    This section should provide a description of any Python embedding that’s used in the use case. 
    For a common definition, Python embedding is used to ingest a dataset not natively available for METplus intake, 
    and results in a dataset being returned to METplus for analysis and verification purposes.
    This section should discuss what is passed to the script from METplus, what is being done by the script, 
    and what data structure is passed back to METplus for evaluation. The end of this section is set language 
    directing users to review the Python requirements in the MET User’s Guide, as well as an 
    embedded link (and image) of all Python scripts used in Python Embedding. The links to these scripts 
    will need to be updated by the user.
    If no Python embedding is used, that should be noted here.

    Example:

    ##############################################################################
    # Python Embedding
    # ----------------
    #
    # This use case calls the read_ASCAT_data.py script to read and pass to PointStat 
    # the user-requested variable. The script needs 5 inputs in the following order: 

>     # a path to a directory that contains only ASCAT data of the “ascat_YYYYMMDDHHMMSS_*” string, 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    # a start time in YYYYMMDDHHMMSS, an end time in the same format, a message type to code 
    # the variables as, and a variable name to read in. Currently the script puts the 
    # same station ID to each observation, but there is space in the code describing 

>     # an alternate method that may be improved upon to allow different sattellites to have 

Reviewer 3: change "sattellites" to "satellites"

    # their own station IDs. This code currently ingests all files it finds in the directory, 
    # pulls out the requested variable, and arranges the data in a list of lists 
    # following the 11-column format for point data. This list of lists is passed back 

>     # to PointStat for evaluation and the requested statistical output. The location of the code is 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    # parm/use_cases/model_applications/marine_and_cryosphere/PointStat_fcstGFS_obsASCAT_satelliteWinds/read_ASCAT_data.py
    #
    # For more information on the basic requirements to utilize Python Embedding in METplus, 
    # please refer to the MET User’s Guide section on `Python embedding <https://met.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Users_Guide/appendixF.html#appendix-f-python-embedding>`_ 
    #
    # .. highlight:: python
    # .. literalinclude:: ../../../../parm/use_cases/model_applications/marine_and_cryosphere/PointStat_fcstGFS_obsASCAT_satelliteWinds/read_ASCAT_data.py

    Python Scripting
    This section should provide a description of any Python scripting that’s used 
    in the use case. For a common definition, Python scripting is any condition where 
    the evaluation/verification/output processes are being completed inside the Python script, 

>     outside of METplus. Essentially, if a Python script is called and a METplus-readable dataset 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    is not passed back to METplus, it is a Python Scripting usage. The METplus wrapper usage only exists 
    to call the Python script.
    This section should discuss what is being done by the script and why the decision was made 

>     to use Python scripting rather than Python embedding. The end of this section is an embedded link (and image) 

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    Running METplus

    Similar to “MET Configuration”, this section has set language that should not be altered. 
    The only change between use cases is the path entered in the run command, which is use case specific.

    Example:
    
    ##############################################################################
    # Running METplus
    # ---------------
    #
    # Pass the use case configuration file to the run_metplus.py script along 
    # with any user-specific system configuration files if desired:
    #
    # run_metplus.py /path/to/METplus/parm/use_cases/model_applications/marine_and_cryosphere/PointStat_fcstGFS_obsASCAT_satelliteWinds.conf /path/to/user_system.conf
    #
    # See :ref:`running-metplus` for more information.

    Expected Output

    This section begins with set language that shows what message a 
    successful METplus run concludes with. Then, it should direct users to the 
    proper folder (folders, if multiple outputs are made) and directory structure 
    where the final output is. If the use case creates intermediate output, it should 

>     be mentioned here as well. A list of the files and folders that are created should be provided.

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    If a netCDF is the output, it should be listed how many and what variable fields 

>     are inside the file. If there are a large number of variable fields within the file, a summary is sufficient.

Reviewer 3: break up this line

>     If an image is created, it should be used as the use case image and referenced in this section as output.

Reviewer 3: break up this line

>     If no output is created, this section should explain why and what the user accomplished by running the use case.

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    Example:

    ##############################################################################
    # Expected Output
    # ---------------
    #
    # A successful run will output the following both to the screen and to the logfile::
    #   INFO: METplus has successfully finished running.
    #
    # Refer to the value set for **OUTPUT_BASE** to find where the output data was generated. 
    # Output for this use case will be found in 
    # {OUPUT_BASE}/model_applications/marine_and_cryosphere/PointStat_fcstGFS_obsASCAT_satelliteWinds 
    # and will contain the following files:
    #
    # * grid_stat_198201_000000L_19700101_000000V_pairs.nc
    # * grid_stat_198201_000000L_19700101_000000V_pstd.txt
    # * grid_stat_198201_000000L_19700101_000000V.stat
    #
    # Each file should contain corresponding statistics for the line type(s) requested.

>     # For the netCDF file, five variable fields are present (not including the lat/lon fields). Those variables are:

Reviewer 3: break up this line

    #
    # * FCST_fcst_ENS_FREQ_lt-0.43_0_0_all_all_FULL(lat, lon)
    # * OBS_tmp2m_20100101_000000_all_all_FULL(lat, lon)
    # * CLIMO_MEAN_tmp2m_20100101_000000_all_all_FULL(lat, lon)
    # * CLIMO_STDEV_tmp2m_20100101_000000_all_all_FULL(lat, lon)
    # * CLIMO_CDF_tmp2m_20100101_000000_all_all_FULL(lat, lon)

    Keywords

    All keywords relevant to the use case should be added to this section 
    as a bulleted list, as well as keeping the set language at the end of the list. 
    If an important identifier for this use case is not currently set as a 
    keyword in the :ref:`quick-search`, be sure to add it to the list of keywords 
    before using it in the use case documentation.
    Users should also use the end of this section to reference an image that 
    will serve as a thumbnail for the use case. If no image is provided, 

>     a default image will be used; this is the same image used for all met_tool_wrapper use cases.

Reviewer 3: break up this line
